README.md, before:

# Video Surveillance for Road Traffic Monitoring - Team 5
## Contributors
- Eloi Bové (eloi.bove@estudiantat.upc.edu)
- Jordi Burgués (jordiburguesm@gmail.com)
- Albert Jiménez (albert.jimenez.tauste@gmail.com)
- Arnau Roche (arnau.roche@gmail.com)

## Week 1
The goals of this week are: 
- Getting familiar with the frameworks and datasets used in this project
- Implementing the evaluation metrics and plots that are necessary for the following weeks

Specifically, the work is divided in 4 tasks:
- **Task 1:** Detection metrics
- **Task 2:** Temporal analysis of the results
- **Task 3:** Quantitative evaluation of Optical Fow
- **Task 4:** Optical Flow plot


## Week 2
The goals of this week are:
 - Implement and discuss gaussian background models, both adaptive and non-adaptive
 - Compare our results with the state of the art
 - Implement a color extension for our models to improve the results

The task division is as follows:
 - **Task1.1:** Gaussian. Implementation
 - **Task1.2:** Gaussian. Discussion
 - **Task2.1:** Adaptive modeling 
 - **Task2.2:** Adaptive vs non-adaptive models
 - **Task3:** Comparison with the state of the art
 - **Task4:** Color sequences

## Week 3
The goals of this week are:
 - Object detection: evaluate inference detection with off-the-shelf models and fine-tune a model with our data and check if there are improvements
 - Object tracking: implement and compare tracking by maximum overlap and with Kalman Filter

The task division is as follows:
 - **Task1.1:** Object detection. Off-the-shelf inference
 - **Task1.2:** Object detection. Fine-tune to our data
 - **Task2.1:** Object tracking. Maximum overlap
 - **Task2.2:** Object tracking. Kalman Filter

Detectron2 is the framework used, and GPU availability is important if you want to use the models.

## Installation :wrench:
### Frames generation from vdo.avi
In order to preview the different detections in the frames, vdo.avi should be downloaded in `datasets/aicity/AICity_data/train/S03/c010` and splitted in frames using ffmpeg:

`cd datasets/aicity/AICity_data/train/S03/c010`
`ffmpeg -i vdo.avi -f image2 frames/frame_%04d.png`

### Dependencies
`pip install xmltodict`

`pip install tqdm`

`pip install scipy`

`pip install sklearn`

`pip install motmetrics`

`pip install scikit-image`

`pip install filterpy`

`pip install lap`

`sudo apt-get install python3-tk`

`pip install scikit-image`

  
## Execution  :gear:
The program is executed as follows, for week X:

`python week_X.py`

## Results :clipboard:
All the generated figures are shown or saved to the the directory `figures/`

## Known issues
The cv2.findContours opencv function has a different number of parameters for different versions of opencv, if this function throws an error, change to opencv 4.2 or later.

### Installing pytorch + detectron (CPU only)
`pip install torch==1.7.1+cpu torchvision==0.8.2+cpu torchaudio==0.7.2 -f https://download.pytorch.org/whl/torch_stable.html`
  
`pip install detectron2 -f https://dl.fbaipublicfiles.com/detectron2/wheels/cpu/torch1.7/index.html`

Commit message:

Added Maskflownet example to readme

README.md, after:

# Video Surveillance for Road Traffic Monitoring - Team 5
## Contributors
- Eloi Bové (eloi.bove@estudiantat.upc.edu)
- Jordi Burgués (jordiburguesm@gmail.com)
- Albert Jiménez (albert.jimenez.tauste@gmail.com)
- Arnau Roche (arnau.roche@gmail.com)

## Week 1
The goals of this week are: 
- Getting familiar with the frameworks and datasets used in this project
- Implementing the evaluation metrics and plots that are necessary for the following weeks

Specifically, the work is divided in 4 tasks:
- **Task 1:** Detection metrics
- **Task 2:** Temporal analysis of the results
- **Task 3:** Quantitative evaluation of Optical Fow
- **Task 4:** Optical Flow plot


## Week 2
The goals of this week are:
 - Implement and discuss gaussian background models, both adaptive and non-adaptive
 - Compare our results with the state of the art
 - Implement a color extension for our models to improve the results

The task division is as follows:
 - **Task1.1:** Gaussian. Implementation
 - **Task1.2:** Gaussian. Discussion
 - **Task2.1:** Adaptive modeling 
 - **Task2.2:** Adaptive vs non-adaptive models
 - **Task3:** Comparison with the state of the art
 - **Task4:** Color sequences

## Week 3
The goals of this week are:
 - Object detection: evaluate inference detection with off-the-shelf models and fine-tune a model with our data and check if there are improvements
 - Object tracking: implement and compare tracking by maximum overlap and with Kalman Filter

The task division is as follows:
 - **Task1.1:** Object detection. Off-the-shelf inference
 - **Task1.2:** Object detection. Fine-tune to our data
 - **Task2.1:** Object tracking. Maximum overlap
 - **Task2.2:** Object tracking. Kalman Filter

Detectron2 is the framework used, and GPU availability is important if you want to use the models.

## Installation :wrench:
### Frames generation from vdo.avi
In order to preview the different detections in the frames, vdo.avi should be downloaded in `datasets/aicity/AICity_data/train/S03/c010` and splitted in frames using ffmpeg:

`cd datasets/aicity/AICity_data/train/S03/c010`
`ffmpeg -i vdo.avi -f image2 frames/frame_%04d.png`

### Dependencies
`pip install xmltodict`

`pip install tqdm`

`pip install scipy`

`pip install sklearn`

`pip install motmetrics`

`pip install scikit-image`

`pip install filterpy`

`pip install lap`

`sudo apt-get install python3-tk`

`pip install scikit-image`

  
## Execution  :gear:
The program is executed as follows, for week X:

`python week_X.py`

## Results :clipboard:
All the generated figures are shown or saved to the the directory `figures/`

## Known issues
The cv2.findContours opencv function has a different number of parameters for different versions of opencv, if this function throws an error, change to opencv 4.2 or later.

### Running optical flow with MaskFlowNet
The following colab link (for anyone with access from upc.edu google suite) shows how to run the MaskFlowNet with the two example images from KITTI:
https://colab.research.google.com/drive/14kBMx_GR0B_pm1ZwxAhcpNCVSRmmUQF2?usp=sharing
